Call for Proposals

Do you want to share your experience and expertise? PyCon Uruguay 2012 is looking for proposals to fill the conference presentation tracks. This meeting is scheduled for Saturday 10 and Sunday 11 of November at the LATU Conference Center in Montevideo, Uruguay.

Proposals can be one of two kinds, traditional talks or sprints. It's planned that all presentations will take place on Saturday 10 and only one coding sprint (hackaton) on Sunday 11 of November.

Presentation subjects may range from reports on open source, academic or commercial projects to tutorials and case studies. As long as a presentation is interesting and potentially useful to the Python community, it will be considered for inclusion in the program.

We're especially interested in short presentations that will teach conference-goers something new and useful. Can you show attendees how to use a module? Explore a Python language feature? Package an application? We'd love to hear from you!

If you have any questions, please review the information below or contact the PyCon Uruguay Program Committee at <programa@pycon.org.uy>.


Important Dates

    Call for Proposals opens: August 29, 2012
    Proposal submission deadline: October 1, 2012
    Proposal acceptance: October 10, 2012


Suggested Topics

Suitable topics for PyCon presentations include, but are not limited to:

    Core Python, including Python 3000
    Other implementations: IronPython, Jython, PyPy, and Stackless.
    Web programming (Django, Pylons, Zope, TurboGears, WSGI, Google App Engine, ...)
    Python libraries and extensions
    Business applications
    Concurrency
    Databases
    Documentation
    Education
    Embedding and extending Python
    Game programming
    GUI programming
    Network programming
    Open source Python projects
    Packaging issues
    Programming tools
    Project best practices
    Science and maths
    Social issues
    System administration with Python
    Testing


Talk Format

The preferred length for talks is 30 minutes. You can request a 45-minute extended slot, but proposals requiring 45 minutes will be reviewed more stringently. 45-minute slots are, as a rule of thumb, reserved for how-to talks rather than talks about things you made, saw, or did.

Session lengths include time for audience questions. You should budget at least five minutes for questions; for example, a 30-minute talk will be 25 minutes of presentation and 5 minutes of questions.


Presentation Recording

We hope to record presentations again this year, though this is pending sponsorship support and not confirmed.

If you do not wish to have your talk recorded the please note this in your submission. Doing so will not influence the selection process in any way.


How to Submit

Use the PyCon Uruguay Online Proposal Submission system to send us your proposals <link>. You must first create an account on the website (and be logged in) in order to submit a proposal.

The primary author should submit the proposal. Additional authors can be added to a proposal on request (they must have accounts too).

The proposal must include the following:

    Proposal title.
    Proposal description.
    Duration/Type: choose 30 minutes for most talks, 45 minutes for extended talks or Tutorial.
    Abstract:
        Public abstract for website and programme.
        Private notes for reviewers.
    Target Skill Level: indicate the intended audience and difficulty level: Beginner/Intermediate/Advanced. Add more detail in the summary and/or description, such as specific experience required.
    Project details: If applicable provide information about the project related to your proposal.
    Further information about yourself
        Biography to appear on the website and programme.
        Your experience: This will only appear to reviewers.


Paper Publication

We would prefer that papers for standard length talks (30 minutes) be no more than 5 A4 pages of 11-point type with reasonable margins and papers for long talks (45 minutes) be no more than 10 pages. Appropriate file formats include any file that can be read with Open Office (which includes plain text and HTML with minimal mark-up) or a PDF viewer. Slides (even those accompanied by speaker notes) will not be printed in the proceedings.
